README.md, before:

# 👋🏽 Hey, I’m José Salcido  
> Principal Engineer · Entrepreneur · Coffee Roaster  

- 📍 Based in Sonora, Mexico
- 🛠 Founder @ [Culto al Perro Café](https://perro.cafe/?utm_source=jmsalcidogithub) | Business Developer @ [Taller Lobo y Osa](https://loboyosa.com/?utm_source=jmsalcidogithub)
- 🧑🏽‍💻 Engineer @ [Probably Genetic](https://probablygenetic.com/?utm_source=jmsalcidogithub)
- 🎓 B.S. in Software Engineering – [ITSON](https://www.itson.mx/?utm_source=jmsalcidogithub)  
- 🐶 Dog dad to Picnic & Chai  

---

## 👨🏽‍💻 About Me

I'm a hands-on Principal Engineer with a product mindset, passionate about building things that matter. I’ve led engineering efforts at startups, contributed to early-stage architectures, and helped products scale from MVPs to production-ready platforms.  

Outside of tech, I roast coffee, run a specialty café, and help small businesses grow with design and strategy. I thrive at the intersection of code, craft, and community.  

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack & Tools

<div>
  <img align="left" alt="Java" width="26px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/explore/80688e429a7d4ef2fca1e82350fe8e3517d3494d/topics/java/java.png" />
  <img align="left" alt="Ruby" width="26px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/explore/80688e429a7d4ef2fca1e82350fe8e3517d3494d/topics/ruby/ruby.png" />
  <img align="left" alt="Python" width="26px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/explore/80688e429a7d4ef2fca1e82350fe8e3517d3494d/topics/python/python.png" />
  <img align="left" alt="Kotlin" width="26px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/explore/80688e429a7d4ef2fca1e82350fe8e3517d3494d/topics/kotlin/kotlin.png" />
  <img align="left" alt="JavaScript" width="26px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/explore/80688e429a7d4ef2fca1e82350fe8e3517d3494d/topics/javascript/javascript.png" />
  <img align="left" alt="React" width="26px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/explore/80688e429a7d4ef2fca1e82350fe8e3517d3494d/topics/react/react.png" />
  <img align="left" alt="Git" width="26px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/explore/80688e429a7d4ef2fca1e82350fe8e3517d3494d/topics/git/git.png" />
  <img align="left" alt="GitHub" width="26px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/explore/78df643247d429f6cc873026c0622819ad797942/topics/github/github.png" />
</div>

<br/><br/><br/>

**DevOps & Infra**  
Docker · AWS (Fargate, ECS, S3, DynamoDB) · Terraform · GitHub Actions · Retool · Cloudflare  

**Tools I Love**  
Poetry · Linear · Notion · Slack · Git · GitHub  

---

## 📊 GitHub Stats

![jmsalcido's Stats](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=jmsalcido&theme=vue-dark&show_icons=true&hide_border=false&count_private=true)  
![jmsalcido's Streak](https://github-readme-streak-stats.herokuapp.com/?user=jmsalcido&theme=vue-dark&hide_border=false)
![jmsalcido's Top Languages](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=jmsalcido&theme=vue-dark&show_icons=true&hide_border=false&layout=compact)

---

## 📄 Resume

💼 [Check out my resume](https://jmsalcido.dev/?utm_source=github&utm_campaign=github-profile)

---

## ☕️ Random Facts

- I’m a frustrated musician 🎸  
- I roast my own coffee and run a small café in northern Mexico  
- I believe in building fast, shipping often, and learning out loud  
- Big fan of stoicism, jazz, and long walks with my dogs 🐕  

---

## Let's connect

- Twitter: [@jmsalcido](https://twitter.com/jmsalcido)  
- LinkedIn: [José Salcido](https://linkedin.com/in/jmsalcido)  
- Personal site: [jmsalcido.dev](https://jmsalcido.dev)

---

Commit message:

Revise README with updated personal details and focus
Updated personal information and refined the about section to better reflect current roles and interests.

README.md, after:

# 👋🏽 Hey, I’m José Salcido  
> Principal Engineer · Entrepreneur · Coffee Roaster  

- 📍 Based in Sonora, Mexico
- 🛠 Founder @ [Culto al Perro Café](https://perro.cafe/?utm_source=jmsalcidogithub) | Business Developer @ [Taller Lobo y Osa](https://loboyosa.com/?utm_source=jmsalcidogithub)
- 🎓 B.S. in Software Engineering – [ITSON](https://www.itson.mx/?utm_source=jmsalcidogithub)  
- 🐶 Dog dad to Picnic & Chai  

---

## 👨🏽‍💻 About Me

I’m a hands-on Principal Engineer who likes shipping, not over-architecting. I’ve helped early-stage startups go from “we have an idea” to “this is a real platform with customers, infra, and processes.”

My work usually sits at the intersection of:

- backend architecture (Django/FastAPI, Python-heavy)
- infrastructure & automation (AWS, Terraform, S3/SQS/ECS, Temporal, Celery)
- product thinking and zero-BS problem solving
- building teams, systems, and things that actually get used

Outside tech, I roast coffee, run a café, and help small businesses sharpen their brand and operations. I enjoy jumping between code, craft, design, and strategy.

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack & Tools

<div>
  <img align="left" alt="Java" width="26px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/explore/80688e429a7d4ef2fca1e82350fe8e3517d3494d/topics/java/java.png" />
  <img align="left" alt="Ruby" width="26px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/explore/80688e429a7d4ef2fca1e82350fe8e3517d3494d/topics/ruby/ruby.png" />
  <img align="left" alt="Python" width="26px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/explore/80688e429a7d4ef2fca1e82350fe8e3517d3494d/topics/python/python.png" />
  <img align="left" alt="Kotlin" width="26px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/explore/80688e429a7d4ef2fca1e82350fe8e3517d3494d/topics/kotlin/kotlin.png" />
  <img align="left" alt="JavaScript" width="26px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/explore/80688e429a7d4ef2fca1e82350fe8e3517d3494d/topics/javascript/javascript.png" />
  <img align="left" alt="React" width="26px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/explore/80688e429a7d4ef2fca1e82350fe8e3517d3494d/topics/react/react.png" />
  <img align="left" alt="Git" width="26px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/explore/80688e429a7d4ef2fca1e82350fe8e3517d3494d/topics/git/git.png" />
  <img align="left" alt="GitHub" width="26px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/explore/78df643247d429f6cc873026c0622819ad797942/topics/github/github.png" />
</div>

<br/><br/><br/>

**DevOps & Infra**  
Docker · AWS (Fargate, ECS, S3, DynamoDB) · Terraform · GitHub Actions · Retool · Cloudflare  

**Tools I Love**  
Poetry · Linear · Notion · Slack · Git · GitHub  

---

## 📊 GitHub Stats

![jmsalcido's Stats](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=jmsalcido&theme=vue-dark&show_icons=true&hide_border=false&count_private=true)  
![jmsalcido's Streak](https://github-readme-streak-stats.herokuapp.com/?user=jmsalcido&theme=vue-dark&hide_border=false)
![jmsalcido's Top Languages](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=jmsalcido&theme=vue-dark&show_icons=true&hide_border=false&layout=compact)

---

## 📄 Resume

💼 [Check out my resume](https://jmsalcido.dev/?utm_source=github&utm_campaign=github-profile)

---

## ☕️ Random Facts

- I’m a frustrated musician 🎸  
- I roast my own coffee and run a small café in northern Mexico  
- I believe in building fast, shipping often, and learning out loud  
- Big fan of stoicism, jazz, and long walks with my dogs 🐕

---

## Let's connect

- Twitter: [@jmsalcido](https://twitter.com/jmsalcido)  
- LinkedIn: [José Salcido](https://linkedin.com/in/jmsalcido)  
- Personal site: [otfusion.org](https://otfusion.org)

---
